# DIABETES-PREDICTION-SYSTEM-
Diabetes is one of deadliest diseases in the world. The disease was diagnosed in 9.3 per cent senior citizens  living in India's rural areas, according to a recent study by the Indian Public Health Standards (IPHS)  published on January 10, 2021. Moreover, every time they want to get their diagnosis report, they have to  waste their money in vain. Nowadays, Diabetes is one of the most common and severe diseases in Bangladesh as well as all over the  world. It is not only harmful to the blood but also causes different kinds of diseases like blindness, renal  disease, kidney problem, heart diseases etc. that causes a lot of death per year. So, it badly needs to develop  a system that can effectively diagnose the diabetes patients using medical details. We propose a strategy for  the diagnosis of diabetes using deep neural network by training its attributes in five-fold and ten-fold  crossvalidation fashion. The Pima Indian Diabetes (PID) data set is retrieved from the UCI machine learning  repository database. The results on PID dataset demonstrate that deep learning approach design an  auspicious system for the prediction of diabetes with prediction accuracy of 98.35%, F1 score of 98, and  MCC of 97 for five-fold cross-validation. Additionally, accuracy of 97.11%, sensitivity of 96.25%, and  specificity of 98.80% are obtained for ten-fold cross-validation. The experimental results exhibit that the  proposed system provides promising results in case of five-fold cross-validation.
